Psychology of Personality
Psych 3325 
Spring, 2021
Asynchronous Online

Course Description

Most of you have spent considerable time thinking and talking about personality in your everyday lives before considering it as a topic of scientific study. The overarching aim of this course is to help you organize your existing (intuitive) knowledge of individual differences, expand on it with empirically supported ideas, and couch all of the body of knowledge into empirical and theoretical frameworks that will help you understand, describe, and predict human behavior and the essential individual differences that lie at its core. 
This course is an intensive introduction to the scientific study of human personality and is organized around four broad questions: 1) How do people differ psychologically and non-clinically? 2) What are the processes and mechanisms underlying these personality differences? 3) What are the implications of these differences in people’s lives? 4) What are the research methods employed to measure personality and to evaluate its relationship with important life outcomes? In addressing these questions, we will consider both classic and contemporary theoretical and empirical approaches to personality and focus on developing a dynamic understanding of human personality within its biological, social, and cultural contexts. This approach is aimed at helping you put together important pieces of the puzzle that creates the person as a whole.
Course Objectives: 
At the end of the course you should: 
•	be familiar with the major theoretical frameworks in personality, both modern and historical.  
•	have a broad appreciation for the major themes of modern personality research, including some of the current challenges and controversies in the field.  
•	be aware of the implications and applications of theories of human nature and the methods covered in the course. 
•	have a basic understanding of how to read and evaluate cutting-edge research articles published in high impact journals in the area of personality psychology.
•	note that a new objective is being based on current events and the remote teaching format. That is: for all students to have some appreciation of the ways that characteristic patterns of thinking, feeling, and behaving might relate to current events. 




 
 Instructor & Teaching Assistant

Instructor
Andreea E. Sutu, M.S.
Email: aesutu@uh.edu
Office hours: Tuesday 4:30 -5:30 PM (Virtual)

•	I am a 5th year graduate student, and a PhD candidate in the area of Personality Psychology. My research interests span from creativity to personality development and change. 
•	My virtual office hours will be conducted one-on-one in Zoom using the “waiting room” feature. This is “first-come, first-serve” but I will gladly go past the scheduled time if more time is needed.  
•	I will also be open to meet at a different time during the week, as long as you request it and I am available. 
•	The second office hour of the semester (Tuesday, January 26th  at 4:30 PM) will be dedicated to answering all of your questions about the syllabus. Please come prepared with questions! 

Please note that I will ask our TA to hold virtual office hours as well. 


Teaching Assistant:
Tingshu Liu
Email: tliu31@cougarnet.uh.edu (please indicate that you’re in Sutu’s class in any of your emails to me, because I work for more than one PSYC 3325 courses this semester. Thank you!)


Correspondence and Communication 

All of the communication in this class will happen electronically. I plan to send frequent communications to all students through Blackboard. I will post these as announcements (with a number, starting with #1 and going up from there) and I will try to forward these as Blackboard emails as often as I remember. I know that some people find it distracting to get lots of emails but I hope you will understand that my aim is to stay in close contact. I want you all to feel connected to this class the way you would with a typical in-person course. I would prefer to provide too much communication over too little. 

You, as students, will also need to communicate with me through electronic correspondence more than usual as well, even if only to set up times to talk (through Zoom). I will do my best to respond to all messages within 24 hours (hopefully sooner). 

This is a large class (85 students) so it is important for each of you to make an effort throughout the course to make your needs, concerns, and questions known to me or to the teaching assistant. There won’t be time for me to reach out to all of you individually on a regular basis, but I definitely want to hear from you. Interacting with students is my favorite part of teaching so, please, don’t hesitate! 

Most importantly, I need to know if you have special needs or circumstances that impact your performance or ability to complete the coursework. Furthermore, the sooner you inform me about your special needs, the easier it will be to find a solution. I am willing to be flexible and accommodating of special circumstances, while following UH rules (see below for more information), but can only reasonably do so if you keep me informed in a timely manner.

Here are some logistics that can help make our correspondence as efficient as possible:
•	Only contact me at aesutu@uh.edu. I do not check messages on blackboard.
•	When sending an email, please include your name as it appears on Blackboard and add PSYC3325 in the Subject. Otherwise, I might not see/open your email since it might go directly into my spam folder.
•	For questions regarding grading, course requirements, etc., please make sure you have read the syllabus before sending your questions.
•	There are times during the semester that I may be overwhelmed with emails. Feel free to send me a follow-up email if I don’t reply within 3-4 work days. Don’t send me a follow-up after 1 day without reply. Please understand that as grad students, teaching this course is not our sole responsibility, and we have our own classes and research, which means I am not always glued to my inbox, but I do try to answer as soon as I read your email, or as soon as I have a solution to the issue presented in your e-mail. 

Course Resources

In general, the class will be organized around the material provided in the required text, but this will be supplemented by additional material, including, but not limited to additional readings and video lectures (as replacements for the in-class lectures). It is important to note that some material in the textbook will not be discussed in my video lectures. While I will focus on the material I believe is most important, do not assume that other assigned reading material will not be covered on exams. 

Required Materials - EBOOK:
Title 	Edition 	Author 	Publisher 	ISBN 
Personality  Psychology 	6th 	Larsen & Buss	McGraw-Hill Education 	978-1-259-87049-1

For this course you will be required to purchase McGraw-Hill Education with Connect® access for Personality Psychology: Domains of Knowledge about Human Nature, 6th Edition.
You are not required to have a print text
Connect access can be purchased during registration for the program, or a connect access card can be purchased from our campus bookstore. The ebook version of your text is included within Connect. To register for Connect, please click on your first Connect assignment in Blackboard and you will be directed to the registration page, or access the connect section directly here: https://connect.mheducation.com/class/a-sutu-3325-spring-2021 Use your UH email to sign in!! 
		
Optional Textbook 

Note: I will use this book for class slides and some readings. Classes are already expensive, and I am not a fan of financial barriers to education. As such, you do not need to purchase this book. I will share with you the readings from the book! 
Funder, D. C. (2015). The Personality Puzzle (7th edition). W. W.  Norton & Company.
If you want to peruse this book, I will gladly lend you a copy of it. Let me know in advance, so we can arrange a socially-distanced pick-up.


Blackboard: 

Additional material will be posted on Blackboard as needed throughout the term. Students in need of assistance with Blackboard Learn Website: http://www.uh.edu/blackboard/help/ Tel: 713-743-1141, Email: support@uh.edu (Include full name, course name and number, section number,  instructors name, and description of the issue., Live chat: http://www.uh.edu/infotech/livechat   
Specific Content Goals and Expectations:

My teaching goal for this course is to provide an informed overview of the field of personality psychology and, hopefully, to convey my enthusiasm for psychological research more generally. While very few of you will pursue formal studies of personality psychology beyond the scope of this course, I hope that you will come to appreciate the relevance of individual differences to most aspects of everyday life – in your relations with other people, your studies, and your work.

To best achieve these goals, I expect that you will deeply engage with the readings and all other class material. I would like you to consider the possibility that no assumption is beyond question, that no theory should escape critical scrutiny. This is traditionally a lecture-based course, but I will also seek to create an interactive environment that allows you to learn in ways that mirror in-person coursework.

What you can expect of me:

I am committed to making this course a positive and fun educational experience. I believe that learning should be challenging but not unpleasant. I aim to provide enough challenge in this course to keep you engaged and curious.  I am open to comments – both positive and negative – and, while I can’t guarantee that I will be able to resolve every complaint in the way that you might hope, I can guarantee that I will listen to your concerns and make every effort to find a satisfactory resolution. If you find yourself bored or overly-challenged, please set up a time to talk things over. If you are not comfortable talking with me directly, consider sharing your concerns confidentially with the teaching assistant.

Class Format

For each credit hour in the classroom, 3 hours of work outside the classroom is expected. As such, the evaluation of your performance in this class will be based on the expectation that you will spend, on average, between 10 and 12 hours/ week on this course.


The following are the grade weights (% of total grade) for the various course components:  

% of total   (total is 1000)
Exams 30% - 300 Points
Quizzes 25% - 250 Points 
Personality Reflections 20% - 200 Points
Reading Assignments 20% - 200 Points
Participation Grade 5% - 50 Points
(see below for explanation)


All class materials, assignments, quizzes, and exams are online. You will have the responsibility to study in depth all the class material available every week by accessing Blackboard and Connect. There will be no in-person lectures, but there will be weekly videos that will touch the important aspects of every week’s topic. Always feel free to email me to set up a meeting or drop by the virtual office hours for clarification.

1. Lectures 
•	Each week, I will post 1-2 short (or long) videos explaining important concepts relevant to the specific material we are covering. You are expected to know all the contents that I present in the videos, since they might be evaluated in exams, quizzes, reading assignments, or personality reflections.
•	PowerPoint slides will be available on Blackboard. These slides will contain more information than what will be covered in the videos. All the information in the slides is relevant for the exam.
•	The textbook chapters will be pointed out for in depth reading. If the readings are not from the primary course manual (which is available via Connect), I will share the readings on Blackboard. All the information in the textbook chapters is relevant for the exam.
•	Your active engagement with the lecture material (videos, slides, and textbook) will be evaluated indirectly in all the following assignments, and it will be reflected directly in your participation grade:
•	Your participation grade (5% of total) will be calculated based on how you prove, throughout the semester, that you have watched the course videos. You might have noticed that attendance is not listed under the grade weights for this course. Since we will not be meeting in-person or “live” (synchronously), attendance doesn’t really make sense. That said, “participation” is more important than ever as you will only get some benefit from this course if you are engaged with the material provided. I will give you the tools and content needed to gain a strong understanding of personality science and I will do my very best to support your learning remotely. There will be several opportunities for me to gauge your participation throughout the term. This will include involvement in activities that are not necessarily graded but which help me to see that you are following along with the class and are generally “engaged” with the material. If you find yourself having a hard time with this for any reason (too easy, too hard, or you are too distracted), please tell me right away so we can find a solution! I expect that most students will get full or nearly full credit on participation but the final score is up to my discretion. 
2. Reading Assignments – Connect (200 points)

•	Reading Assignments will be completed on Connect (and linked on Blackboard) and will be available each week.
•	Reading assignments ensure and reward your consistent engagement with the textbook. 
•	Each Chapter in the Chapter list (found below, in the class schedule) will be paired with a reading assignment that you will complete prior to the weeks’ end. Ideally, you will complete the reading assignment prior to the quizzes. (see next about quizzes).
•	Reading assignments are available every Monday morning (9am) and until the same week on Sunday evening (9pm).
•	Due to several reasons, I am unable to accept late submissions or make-ups for these reading assignments.

3. Quizzes – Connect (250 points)

•	Quizzes will be completed on Connect (and linked on Blackboard) and will be available each week. 
•	Quizzes are available every Monday morning (time tbd) and until the same week on Sunday evening (9 pm).
•	Due to several reasons, I am unable to accept late submissions or make-ups for these quizzes.

4. Exams - Connect (300 points)
Please note that the exams time and date are strictly observed in this class. 

There will be 3 non-cumulative exams, that will evaluate mastery of content during each segment of the course.  Each exam will have 50 questions. Each question is worth 2 points. Exams will reflect material from online assignments, lectures, assigned readings, and any online materials that are presented.
Tentative exam content is as follows: 
•	Exam 1 will cover Chapters 1 – 5
•	Exam 2 will cover Chapters 6 – 10,
•	Exam 3 will cover Chapters 11 – end of class.

Each exam will be available for 8 hours online, on the days mentioned in the class schedule. Once you access the exam, you will have a limited time to give your answers (80 minutes). Exams will be taken online via Connect. It is your responsibility to ensure that they are available to take the exam on the scheduled exam dates. There will be no excuses if you forget to take the exam, or if you don’t announce that you won’t be able to take the exam on the scheduled days at least 7 days prior to the exam dates. The only acceptable excuses are below*. 
Students who begin an exam within the availability window, but who fail to submit their exams by the assigned deadline will be penalized ten percent (30 points) per every 60-second window that the exam is late. For example, if an exam is due before 11:59 PM, CST, exams submitted from 11:59:01 PM -12:00:00 AM will be penalized 30 points; tests submitted from 12:00:01 AM - 12:01:00 AM will be penalized 60 points, and so on.  
*Excused absences for exams will be given only if: (a) you are seriously ill and have verifiable documentation from a physician, or (b) you were detained by law at the exam time, or (c) you made prior arrangements to attend a verified religious event. In ALL these cases except (b), you must notify the instructor at least 1 week in advance of the scheduled exam by email; for (b), your court order will suffice. Otherwise, you will receive a zero (0) for that evaluation. A maximum extension of one week (7 days) beyond the scheduled exam date can be granted.  
Regarding EXAMS: There will be no makeup exams except in the cases a, b, or c listed above. There will be no other exception to this rule.

5. Personality Reflections (200 points) Graded on a scale from 0-50 for each prompt. 

These will be writing assignments completed throughout the term. I will aim to provide several writing prompts throughout the term – at least 5 will be offered but hopefully many more. You MUST respond to a minimum of 4 prompts during the term for your grade to be calculated on the personality reflections. In other words, if you have 3 or fewer reflections, your grade on this part of the course will be 0. 
 
If you respond to 5 prompts, I will drop your lowest score. If you respond to more than 5 prompts, you will be eligible for up to 1% of extra credit added to your total course grade (credit will be equal to your grade on the assignment times 1%). 

I am rewarding these Reflection assignments highly for two reasons. First, I hope it will give me an opportunity to get to know you all as students. Second, I think this will mitigate the loss of in-class discussion that would occur if we were meeting in person. As you may have guessed, late submissions are not accepted.


6. Extra Credit

 Extra credit: SONA or Research Article Summary

For this section of the class, you are allowed to pick between two options. You can either write a research article summary, or participate in lab research hours through SONA. Note that this is NOT a requirement and it is possible to earn an A in this course without the extra credit. You will be asked to make a choice between the two and to announce that choice by February 25th .  It is not possible to choose both options or to combine a small number of SONA hours with the research proposal. You will have to choose strictly between SONA and the research article summary. If you have not announced your choice by February 25th, I will automatically assume that you will not work towards extra credit. If you announce later than February 25th , or if you never announced your choice but you submit work for extra credit, I will deduct 50% from your extra credit grade. 

Option 1: SONA – max 50p

In this course, you may count for extra credit with an additional of 2 hours of lab experiments on SONA. Your participation can be in either online or in person studies. Instructions on how to use the SONA participant pool and how to apply credits to a course are posted on Blackboard. See the class schedule below for information about SONA deadlines. 
Credit and Partial credit as follows:
2 hours of SONA = 50 points
1.5 hours of SONA = 30 points
1 hours of SONA = 20 points
.5 hours of SONA = 10 points


Option 2: Research Article Summary (Max 50 points)

Research articles represent a written genre with stylistic and structural conventions that fall in line with the scientific method. In this course, you will develop the ability to synthesize and critique the main parts of a research article in the area of Personality Psychology: What is the object of study? What are the research questions? What are the predictions? What methods were used? What were the main findings? Were there any shortcomings (unclear logical reasoning and arguments, insufficient evidence, etc.)? What are some additional research questions that would be interesting to pursue? There will be a series of opportunities throughout the course where I will present to you research articles and I will offer examples on how to read and understand these research articles. Take advantage of these opportunities to learn.

For this section of your grade, you will write a summary of a research article on a topic in Personality Psychology. This article is to be chosen from a pool of articles I will share with you. You will submit your Research Article Summary on Turnitin on Blackboard and use APA style and references. This should be no shorter than 3 and no longer than 6 pages including References.

Deadline: April 30th . Late submission will be penalized. 
Points: Max 50p. Detailed instructions and grading rubric will be uploaded on Blackboard.


Final remarks on class grading

All deadlines will be observed in Central Standard Time (CST). If you are traveling when a quiz or exam is due, it is your responsibility to make necessary adjustments. Submitting a quiz or exam late due to time zone differences will NOT be accepted as a valid excuse. No exceptions. Each student is responsible for submitting their assessment then checking the Grade Center to verify that the assignment appears as needing to be graded in the Grade Center. No paper or screen shots will be accepted as verification that the assignment was "submitted on time". Give yourself plenty of time to submit and verify assignment submission and to contact Blackboard Support, if necessary, in addressing any issue. 
It is each student’s responsibility to keep track of the time available for completing your exams and quizzes, and to manage your testing time appropriately. Managing your time includes observing exam or quiz due dates and times, as well as being aware of scheduled Blackboard maintenance. It is additionally your responsibility to ensure you have proper and adequate network connectivity during quizzes and exams. You are advised to complete exams and quizzes on a computer with a hard-wired, high-speed internet connection, NOT on WiFi and NOT on a mobile device such as a tablet or phone. Technical issues and computer/connectivity problems will NOT be accepted as an excuse for failing to complete an exam or quiz on time. 
Your assessment score will be presented to you immediately upon submitting it. 


Grading

Letter Grade	Points	Percentage
A	930 - 1050	93 - 100
A-	900 - 929	90 - 92.9
B+	870 - 899	87 - 89.9
B	830 - 869	83 - 86.9
B-	800 - 829	80 - 82.9
C+	770 - 799	77 - 79.9
C	730 - 769	73 - 76.9
C-	700 - 729	70 - 72.9
D+	670 - 699	67 - 69.9
D	630 - 669	63 - 66.9
D-	600 - 629	60 - 62.9
F	599 or less	59.9 or less


Grading components (track your progress)

Source	Number of Total Points 	
Fill in with your points
Exam 1	100	
Exam 2	100	
Exam 3	100	
Quizzes	250	
Reading Assignments	200	
Personality Reflections	200	
Participation	50	
Total without Extra Credit	1000	
Extra Credit: SONA or Research Proposal	50	
Total # points with extra credit	1050	

Please do not leave issues for the end of semester. The earlier we get matters resolved, the better!

Administrative Details:

1.  You are expected to know the contents of this syllabus and students are responsible for all updates and announcements made in class or over email. 

2.  Course Web Site.  You can access the course web site on UH Blackboard. This syllabus, SONA participation instructions, lecture slides, and all other materials will be posted on the course web site.  

3. Class Communication. You can always reach me or your Teaching Assistant by email with any questions regarding the course.
I will generally send you class messages via email. All of your email addresses registered with Blackboard are the ones @uh.edu, so please check your email at this address frequently to avoid missing important information. I DO NOT check Blackboard Messages. Please, refrain from sending me messages via Blackboard and only use the posted email address (aesutu@uh.edu).

4. Changes to the Syllabus. I will do my best to keep you informed of any and all changes made to the syllabus. Therefore, I will post updated syllabi on blackboard and will contact you via announcements or email. 

5. Academic Honesty. Academic dishonesty will not be tolerated and all instances of cheating (including suspicion of cheating) will be reported to the appropriate entities. During exams, you are not allowed to look at other students’ exams, wear a hat or sunglasses, have papers or other materials next to your test, or leave before turning in your exam. If you come in more than 15 minutes late to an exam, you will not be allowed to take the test. The University of Houston academic honesty policy can be found at the following web-site address: http://publications.uh.edu/content.php?catoid=21&navoid=5723
6. Special needs. UH provides individuals with disabilities reasonable accommodations to participate in educational programs, activities, and services. Students with disabilities requiring accommodations to participate in class activities or meet course requirements should contact the professor as early as possible, and also contact the CSD to obtain their assistance and coordination in working with this course. It is your responsibility to provide the required documentation from CSD in a timely manner. For further information see: http://www.uh.edu/csd/.

7. Counseling and Psychological Services: Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) can help students who are having difficulties managing stress, adjusting to college, or feeling sad and hopeless. You can reach CAPS (www.uh.edu/caps) by calling 713-743-5454 during and after business hours for routine appointments or if you or somebody you know is in crisis. No appointment is necessary for the “Let’s Talk” program, a drop-in consultation service at convenient locations and hours around campus: http://www.uh.edu/caps/outreach/lets_talk.html 
8. Absences or lack of participation: Absences may be excused as provided in the University of Houston Undergraduate Excused Absence Policy and Graduate Excused Absence Policy for reasons including: medical illness of student or close relative, death of a close family member, legal or government proceeding that a student is obligated to attend, recognized professional and educational activities where the student is presenting, and University-sponsored activity or athletic competition.  Additional policies address absences related to military service, religious holy days, pregnancy and related conditions, and disability.

9. Excused Absence Policy 

Regular class attendance, participation, and engagement in coursework are important contributors to student success. Absences may be excused as provided in the University of Houston Undergraduate Excused Absence Policy and Graduate Excused Absence Policy for reasons including: medical illness of student or close relative, death of a close family member, legal or government proceeding that a student is obligated to attend, recognized professional and educational activities where the student is presenting, and University-sponsored activity or athletic competition. Under these policies, students with excused absences will be provided with an opportunity to make up any quiz, exam or other work that contributes to the course grade or a satisfactory alternative. Please read the full policy for details regarding reasons for excused absences, the approval process, and extended absences. Additional policies address absences related to military service, religious holy days, pregnancy and related conditions, and disability.

10. Recording of Class 

Students may not record all or part of class, livestream all or part of class, or make/distribute screen captures, without advanced written consent of the instructor. If you have or think you may have a disability such that you need to record class-related activities, please contact the Center for Students with DisABILITIES. If you have an accommodation to record class-related activities, those recordings may not be shared with any other student, whether in this course or not, or with any other person or on any other platform. Classes may be recorded by the instructor. Students may use instructor’s recordings for their own studying and notetaking. Instructor’s recordings are not authorized to be shared with anyone without the prior written approval of the instructor. Failure to comply with requirements regarding recordings will result in a disciplinary referral to the Dean of Students Office and may result in disciplinary action.

11. Syllabus Changes 

Due to the changing nature of the COVID-19 pandemic, please note that the instructor may need to make modifications to the course syllabus and may do so at any time. Notice of such changes will be announced as quickly as possible through Blackboard announcements. 


NOTE: The life of a professional psychologist includes the ability to actively participate in courteous intellectual discourse, debate, and discussion. In all likelihood, you will occasionally disagree with me or with one (or more) of your classmates during a class meeting or online discussion. While scholarly debate and polite disagreement are encouraged in this class, rudeness, bullying, or belittling will not be tolerated. If you cannot be kind, please be quiet.



Helpful Information

COVID-19 Updates: https://uh.edu/covid-19/

Coogs Care: https://www.uh.edu/dsaes/coogscare/ 

Laptop Checkout Requests: https://www.uh.edu/infotech/about/planning/off-campus/index.php#do-you-need-a-laptop

Health FAQs: https://uh.edu/covid-19/faq/health-wellness-prevention-faqs/ 

Student Health Center: https://uh.edu/class/english/lcc/current-students/student-health-center/index.php


 
